## 基本信息

- **标题**: TAAC: A gate into Trustable Audio Affective Computing
- **作者**: Xintao Hu, Feng-Qi Cui
- **ArXiv ID**: 2603.25570v1
- **发布日期**: 2026-03-26
- **主分类**: cs.CR
- **分类**: cs.CR, cs.AI
- **摘要**: With the emergence of AI techniques for depression diagnosis, the conflict between high demand and limited supply for depression screening has been significantly alleviated. Among various modal data, audio-based depression diagnosis has received increasing attention from both academia and industry since audio is the most common carrier of emotion transmission. Unfortunately, audio data also contains User-sensitive Identity Information (ID), which is extremely vulnerable and may be maliciously used during the smart diagnosis process. Among previous methods, the clarification between depression features and sensitive features has always serve as a barrier. It is also critical to the problem for introducing a safe encryption methodology that only encrypts the sensitive features and a powerful classifier that can correctly diagnose the depression. To track these challenges, by leveraging adversarial loss-based Subspace Decomposition, we propose a first practical framework \name presented for Trustable Audio Affective Computing, to perform automated depression detection through audio within a trustable environment. The key enablers of TAAC are Differentiating Features Subspace Decompositor (DFSD), Flexible Noise Encryptor (FNE) and Staged Training Paradigm, used for decomposition, ID encryption and performance enhancement, respectively. Extensive experiments with existing encryption methods demonstrate our framework's preeminent performance in depression detection, ID reservation and audio reconstruction. Meanwhile, the experiments across various setting demonstrates our model's stability under different encryption strengths. Thus proving our framework's excellence in Confidentiality, Accuracy, Traceability, and Adjustability.
- **PDF 链接**: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.25570v1
